The subject of today's lecture is hedging.
So this is what hedge funds do.
It's what almost everyone on Wall Street does nowadays,
at least to some extent, say half the people on Wall
Street do it nowadays.
It was hardly done at all in the past.
So first of all just to mention what a hedge fund is,
a hedge fund is a firm that manages money.
And why is it different from any other firm that manages
money?
Well, the definition of hedge fund basically has three parts.
One is that hedge funds hedge.
Now I'll say what that is in a second.
Secondly, hedge funds use borrowed money in addition to
their investor's money to buy assets.
So they do what's called leveraging,
which is going to be an important subject for the last
few lectures of the course.
And thirdly, they charge their investors very high fees.
That's basically the definition of a hedge fund because they're
supposed to be so good at what they do they can charge high
fees and still get the investors.
So what is hedging?
Hedging is the idea that you want to cancel out some of your
risks.
So for instance you might know that a company is not going to
default whereas the rest of the market thinks it is going
to default.
So you know the company is worth more than the rest of the
market thinks.
So you might be tempted to buy the company.
But if the interest rate were to change, say you go way up and
the company's paying has constant cash payments,
if the interest rate goes way up and the company has constant
cash payments, you could end up losing money
anyway because the present value is going to go down just
because the interest rate has gone up.
So what a hedger would do is the hedger would say,
I'm relying on my expertise as an evaluator to realize there's no
default risk.
I want to bet that there's no default risk in this company.
It's not going to default.
I don't want to bet on which way interest rates are going to
go because I don't know which way interest rates are going to
go.
So I want to hedge myself against that.
So to take a, sorry I'm just starting here,
a lot of hello.
Sorry, hard to talk when everyone else is talking.
So if you, so what does hedging a risk mean?
It means no matter which way the risk factor goes,
you're going to still end up with the same amount of money.
So the first person to do this and call himself a hedge
fund was somebody named Jones in the 1940s.
And he was a stock picker who would try to find the best
possible stock to buy.
So before him people would say, okay, Ford is a great auto
company.
We're going to buy Ford.
The trouble is that Ford may in fact turn out to be the best
auto company but because the whole economy collapsed it may
be that Ford collapsed with the rest of the economy even though
it did better than all the other auto companies.
So what Jones said is I'm not going to just buy Ford.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to buy Ford and I'm going to
sell General Motors.
So that way I'm going to be betting not on whether Ford is
better than General Motors and in addition whether the whole
economy is going to go up.
I only want to bet on whether Ford is better than General
Motors.
So if the whole economy goes down Ford and General Motors
will go down together.
So what you own in Ford, you won't own something as
valuable anymore but what you owe by having sold General
Motors short also won't be as valuable.
So what you've bought and what you've sold will cancel each
other out and you won't have lost any money.
On the other hand, if Ford ends up doing better
than General Motors you'll have gained more with Ford than
you'll have lost with General Motors.
So whether the economy goes up or down if the gap between
Ford and General Motors stays the same you won't lose or
win money.
So you're hedged against general changes in the economy.
You're only going to make or lose money depending on the
thread between Ford and General Motors.
So you've canceled out the economy-wide risk and you're only
holding one risk which you really think that you've
understood.
So that's what hedging is.
So I'm going to now show you that hedging is actually a
slightly delicate thing.
It's quite complicated and we're going to learn the
technique of dynamic hedging.
Now why is dynamic hedging so important?
Dynamic hedging is so important because there's so many
things that can happen in the future.
And as I said, for example, if you hold a mortgage you may
think the mortgage is more valuable because you know people
aren't going to default and the rest of the economy thinks
they're going to default.
On the other hand, the value of the mortgage will
change with the interest rate.
So you want to protect yourself against the interest rate
change.
But it's not just the interest rate change.
Over 10 years or 30 years, the life of the mortgage,
there are going to be a huge number of interest rates
changes.
There'll be a whole path of interest rate changes.
And the mortgage will be paying different cash flows
along the whole path.
And over 30 years, even if you only think of one
change a day, there's an exponentially
growing set of changes.
So there's an exponential number of paths.
You'll never be able to equalize your cash flows,
you would think, over every single path.
There are just too many of them.
But dynamic hedging says you don't have to equalize
over every path from the very beginning.
You don't have to hold a portfolio at the very beginning
that equalizes your cash flows by the end on every path.
You only have to equalize your cash flow one step at a time
and then dynamically change your hedge.
So it's a much easier thing to hedge
than it sounds at first glance.
So I want to illustrate that because you can't know
what that means yet until we see an example.
So let's start with a very easy thing to understand
the World Series where we started with before.
So you have some expertise.
In fact, there are other people besides you
who have the same expertise, these other bookies.
You all know the Yankees have a 60% chance of winning
every game against the Phillies.
And let's just assume for simplicity that the World Series
is only going to take a couple weeks,
the interest rate is zero over such a short period of time.
You don't care whether you get the money now
or at the end of two weeks, it's just so long as you
get it.
And secondly, and you can borrow or lend
zero interest over those short number of days.
And secondly, you know that the probability
of winning is 60%.
Now suppose that some naive person comes to you and says,
I'm a Phillies fan, I want to bet at even odds
that the Phillies are going to win for $100.
So you're going to now get a payoff that's
minus $100 at the end of game seven,
assuming I counted right.
So this is the start.
So this would be game one here.
So it's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
So by the end of game seven if you played it to the end
you would have made $100 if the Yankees won a majority of the
games and you would have lost $100 if the Yankees
didn't win a majority of the games.
So how much is that worth to you?
Well, obviously it's worth a lot more than $20
because if they only played one game and the Yankees had a 60%
chance of winning the expected payoff for the Yankees would be,
that bet for one game would be $20 because in one game a 0.6
chance of 100 and a 0.4 chance of minus 100,
that gives you an expectation of 20.
60 minus 40 is 20.
However, we're playing a seven game series.
The whole point of playing a long series is that the Yankees
are more likely to win.
They're better teams, more likely to win.
And in fact we know that by doing this backward induction
calculation we know that the expected winnings for the Yankees
is $42.
However, the Yankees you could lose $100.
If the Phillies just got lucky you could lose as well as win
$100.
You don't want to face that risk.
So what could you do?
Well, the simplest thing to do is to go to another bookie
and say, I want to bet on the World Series with this other
bookie.
And so if the bookie is willing to make a bet with you for the
whole series, so the bookie has to be pretty
sophisticated and do the same calculation,
the bookie is going to let you bet however you want to at the
right odds.
So what would you do?
So here you can win $100, there are only two outcomes.
You can win $100 or you can lose $100.
Now the odds of winning the game, I forgot to say,
the series we figured this out before.
Oh dear, what were the odds?
I hope I have another one of these World Series things.
Oh, right.
So what are the odds that the Yankees are going to win the
World Series?
So four, do you remember what it was?
Well, we know some probability P times 100 plus some probability
1 minus T times minus 100 gives you 42.
So P times 100 plus 1 minus P times minus 100 equals 42.
Approximately that's 42, right?
So we know that therefore 2P times 100 equals 142.
So P equals 142 over 100 times 2, which equals about 0.71.
So this other bookie would have calculated the odds are 71% that
the Yankees are going to win the World Series.
And we calculated this a few classes ago.
The Yankees have a 71% chance of winning the World Series.
Okay, so if you went to another bookie who could do this
calculation, the other bookie would be
willing to give you odds of 71% Yankees versus 39% Phillies.
So you could just unload this whole bet and get $42 for sure.
In fact, what would you bet with the other guy?
What would you bet with the other bookie?
What would you do if you could bet on the whole World Series?
Somebody suggested that.
He was sitting over there at the end of the last class.
What would you do if you could bet on the whole World Series
with the other bookie?
What bet would you make?
You know that the bet is giving you $42 on expectation.
The trouble is some of the time it's giving you 100,
some of the time it's giving you minus 100.
You don't want to fix this risk.
You want to end up with $42 for sure.
How can you do that?
Well, if you did minus 68 here, that would equal 42.
Okay, and if you did plus 142 here, that would also equal 42.
So could you figure out a way of betting with the other bookies
142 versus 68?
You win 142 if the Phillies win and you lose 68 if the
Yankees win.
That's not 32, 42, by the way.
Okay, would another bookie be willing to give you this bet?
What's the answer?
The answer is yes.
How do you know the other bookie would be willing to give you
this bet?
What is p times 42 plus 1 minus p times 42?
It's 42.
What's p times 100 plus 1 minus p times minus 100?
It's also 42.
So therefore what's p times this plus 1 minus p times that?
Zero.
Okay, so at the odds p and 1 minus p, this bet is perfectly
fair.
So the other bookie would say that's the odds 71 percent to
39 percent.
That's exactly what these odds are.
So if p times this plus 1 minus p times that is 42 and p
times this plus 1 minus p times that, that's obviously 42,
that must be p times this plus 1 minus p times that is 0.
In other words, at the odds p and 1 minus p,
this is a fair bet.
So the other bookie ought to be able to give you those odds.
Okay, so that's what hedging is in its simplest form.
We haven't had to do anything dynamic.
Some guy's willing to bet on the World Series with you,
so you know that he's done something wrong in his
calculations.
He's got the wrong p.
So you can take advantage of the situation.
You know that p is higher than he does.
On the other hand, there's still God in the
background and luck which might make the Phillies win.
And so you don't want to subject yourself to that risk.
So what do you do?
You take the bet, the advantageous bet,
but you put together with the advantageous bet a hedging
bet where you're betting on the wrong team.
The team you think is going to lose.
Okay, but you're betting on the wrong team,
but this time at fair odds on the wrong team.
And so you're transforming your risky payoff,
albeit with very favorable odds.
You know, p we just said was 0.71.
You're taking your risky payoff and turning it into a safe
payoff of 42 no matter what.
That's the essence of hedging.
And in order to do that, you might have to bet the
opposite way that you think is going to turn out.
Okay, so there's principle number one.
So let me pause and see if there are any questions for that
about that.
The idea is that there's something you know that you can
take advantage of, but life is more complicated
than knowing one thing, namely what p is.
Life also involves all kinds of other things that might
happen.
You want to insulate yourself from those other things and
concentrate entirely on what you know about p and 1-p,
and therefore assure yourself of a bet of 42 no matter what.
And you're taking advantage of the fact that other people
will be able to bet at p with you.
And this one outsider doesn't understand that all the bookies
are willing to take odds of p, he's offering odds of a half,
which are crazy.
It's a big gap, 71-29 to p,
so you can take 42 of his dollars for sure.
Okay, so now let's go to...
Okay, so this is hedging.
It's also an arbitrage.
Hedging created a pure arbitrage because now in this case it's
done even better than in my example with Ford because you've
taken now a bet and transformed it where on expectation you're
going to win and to a bet where you can't possibly lose.
Okay, now suppose that these other brokers weren't as
smart as you.
Okay, so that's hedging.
Now we're going to do dynamic hedging.
Suppose the other brokers, they're not as smart as you,
they don't know how to build these trees,
they can't do backward induction.
They just know the odds are 60% that the Yankees are going to
win any game against the Phillies.
Now what would you do?
Okay, you can't go to another broker and say,
I want to bet on a whole seven-game series.
The guy's going to say, it's just too complicated for me,
I'm a simple man, I make a simple living,
I just do one-game bets.
Tell me, I'll let you bet any game you want.
You can tell me what you want to bet.
We'll bet one game at a time, 60-40 odds.
The whole series, it's much more complicated for
me.
So is there anything you can do now?
What can you do now?
So now you have to do something more complicated which is
called dynamic hedging.
So we started to talk about this last time.
So what would you do?
You only now have the opportunity of protecting yourself
against bad luck by betting one game at a time with these other
brokers.
So what should you do?
Well, let's look at this picture here.
You know that this bet of plus 100 minus 100 by doing
transaction is worth 42.
So if you were a trader, a hedge fund manager,
you would be marking your position at 42.
You're expecting now, you've just made a trade which
you know on average is going to make you $42.
Of course, if you had bad luck you could end up losing $100,
which means you're going to go out of business,
you're going to be fired, your name's going to be in the
newspaper, you're going to be probably
sued by your investors.
We haven't been sued by any investors.
Or you might make $100.
Now you don't want to face that.
You want to hedge yourself, protect yourselves,
you're going to make the money for sure.
Now some people don't hedge.
They say when you hedge you're betting against yourself and
something bad can happen.
The hedge might go negative.
It may be that the Yankees win just as you think,
but because you've hedged you're not going to get $100,
you're only going to get $42.
So the essence of hedging is you give something up on the
upside to get something on the downside.
So people don't like hedging because they're giving something
up.
Okay, so you're giving something up.
The point is you're getting something back on the
downside and you're making it so you're locking in your
profit.
So hedging is a good thing.
So people who don't hedge, I think they're just very
simple-minded.
So there are a lot of people who still don't hedge.
There's a revolution in financial thought in the last 30
years, anticipated by Ford, but people didn't really
catch on until the 70s, that you should hedge.
So how can you hedge this if you can only bet one time,
one game at a time?
That was the question we dealt with last time.
What should you do?
Well, you see the principles we've learned so far tell us
what to do.
You started here thinking on average you're going to
make $42.
You should be marking your position correctly,
that it's worth $42.
Now if you win the first game you're at a big advantage.
The Yankees are up again and by backward induction we know that
then your position will be worth $64.
Okay, if you lose your position will be worth $8.
Now what is 60% of 64 and plus 40% of 9?
It's 42.
60% of 64 is 38.4.
Okay, so you're at 42 and you could go with 60% probability to
60, well I can't even remember the number,
64 or down to 0.9, 40%, sorry,
I'm getting a senile 9 with 40% probability.
So 60% times that is 38.4 plus 40% of 9 is 3.6 and the 2 add up to
42.
Okay, so to say that the value is worth 42,
how did you get the 42?
We were doing backward induction.
We took 60% of that plus 40% of that and we got 42.
So if you're marking yourself to market after the first game of the
series you'll have to say to the world, admit to the world,
that you're either now worth $64 or you've gotten crushed and
you're down to $8.
That already might get you fired.
Going from 42 to 8, that's a pretty drastic loss.
So even the first day you'd be, if you have to mark to
market, you're going to be revealing to the world that
you've screwed up and now your position is only 8.
You've told all your investors, you've done this brilliant
work.
They're up $42.
The next day you're going to have to tell them,
well, I'm sorry, you're only up $8.
They're going to be very upset.
So what would you do?
You know what to do, what would you do?
What?
Hedge, good answer.
How would you hedge?
Right, so you'd go, so what would you say?
You'd go, so here this is minus,
no this is 9, so you'd go plus 33 minus 22.
So that's equal to 42 and that's also equal to 42.
So can you do this at a fair, is it fair odds to do this?
Well yes, it has to be fair odds to do this because 60%
of 64 plus 40% of 9 is indeed 42,
60% of 42 plus 40% of 42 obviously is 42,
so therefore the difference 60% of this plus 40% of that
must be 0, so in other words it's fair odds
and sure enough this is obviously 3 to 2 odds, right?
6040 means you're betting at 3 to 2 odds,
that's 3 to 2 odds.
So it is a fair bet, so the other bookie who's
willing to bet at 3 to 2 odds is going to give you this bet.
So again, you think the Yankees are going to win,
and you make a bet with the naive Philly fan,
you're betting the Yankees are going to win,
you go to your broker friend and you bet against your Yankees.
You're going to lose $22 if the Yankees win and win 33 if the Phillies win.
You're betting against yourself, but of course you're betting
against yourself to a smaller extent than you're betting
against the other guy and therefore you still locked in $42.
So now we don't have to go any further,
you would only be confusing to go further,
and I usually go further and then so it would just be complicated.
If you can do something once you can do it many times.
So you can, by making the right hedging bet,
you can lock in a profit of $42 up here and up here.
But that means you can lock it in going forward
until the very end because you can keep repeating
that hedge over and over again.
So maybe I better go one step further, you don't really believe me.
So what could you do going from here to here?
Well, the average of here and here is 8.
But of course you've got 9, you've collected $33,
don't forget, from your hedging bet.
So although this says 9, you've got the 33 in the background
so it's 42, but it's 9.
So what you want to do, this is 9.
You just want to transform this and this until 9.
Once you've transformed this and this into 9,
which you can do because 60% of this plus 40% of that is 9.
So the other broker is going to,
you can do an offloading hedging bet with another broker
at 6040 odds to get 9 for sure here.
Why is that?
Because 60% of this plus 40% of that is 9.
So therefore there must be offsetting a bet he'd take
that gave you 9 for sure in both cases,
because the offsetting bet would also be valued at 0
according to 6040 odds.
So you can transform this and this into 9,
but don't forget you've been paid the 33.
So actually this is 42 and 42.
So you can keep 42 and 42 going forever.
And by the end you'll have 42 forever.
So that's what dynamic hedging is.
It's as simple as that.
Okay.
Yes?
Yes.
So how do you make money in hedging?
You effectively were betting against the Philly's fan at 50%
odds and you've got your broker who's willing to give you 60%
odds and you're exploiting that gap.
Okay.
So let's do another example.
So it's an excellent question you're asking.
So I haven't answered this question yet.
I want to give another example to answer this question.
So what is really going on with the hedging?
I mean what am I relying on?
I mean how many brokers do I have to deal with the hedge?
What's going on here?
So I've given an example of a world series where it's
very simple to figure out what to do.
So now I want to give an example of a bond.
So it doesn't matter what bond I have to confess.
I haven't done this in advance.
Okay.
So here we have a 30-year bond, 8% 30-year bond.
Okay.
And it's an 8% 30-year bond.
It's an 8% 30-year bond.
Okay.
So we know what its payment is.
And now if the guy, if the homeowner,
homeowners are all perfectly not paying attention,
the bond is going to be worth some amount of money.
Okay.
So here are the interest rates.
I forgot to say.
So we have to assume what the risk is.
So we know.
So in fact what does this mean?
We know that the risk is 6% and it has a 20% volatility.
Okay.
So what does that tell us?
It tells us that the interest rates could go up or down by this amount.
Now we've assumed that the odds that it can go up or down are 50-50.
So we've assumed that everybody thinks the odds are 50-50,
that the interest rate could go up or down.
That's an assumption.
And so now I'm going to make, okay.
We've assumed that the odds are 50-50.
Let's assume that everybody is willing to trade you 50-50 odds.
Okay.
So what does that mean?
This is like your other broker.
Okay.
The interest rate is here, R0.
It can go up to R0 times up or it can go down to R0 times some down.
Okay.
And up remember is, you know, up by the way.
This equals R0E to the volatility times E to the drift.
And down equals R0E to the minus volatility E to the drift.
Okay.
So R0 can go up or it can go down.
So U is bigger than 1, D is less than 1 probably.
And so we see examples of that.
Now I'm making an assumption here that the odds are a half and a half
and that everybody understands and is willing to bet on these odds of a half
and a half.
So betting on an interest rate move is called that kind of betting on
interest rates means trading interest rate derivatives.
All right.
So there are a bunch of ways that you can trade in the interest rate market to get
a dollar if the interest rate goes up to this number in exchange for losing a
dollar down to this number.
Okay.
And these things are called swaps and they're called interest rate
derivatives and they're called a whole bunch of other things which is going
to take too long to explain.
Okay.
But so let's suppose that you can go out into the interest rate
derivative market and simply trade a security that'll pay a dollar if
things go up, you know, or you can buy another security that'll pay
a dollar if things go down.
So what is the price of this security that pays a dollar if the
interest rates go up?
Let's say they can only go up or down to one of two values.
So what would somebody, what would be the cost if
everyone agrees the odds are 50% of getting out here,
what is the price today going to be of getting a dollar if the
interest rate goes up?
Excellent.
Who said that?
Perfect.
Okay.
I didn't expect anyone to say that so fast, so right.
So the price here we could write is 0.5 divided by 1
plus R0.
And this price is going to be going down is going to be 0.5
divided by 1 plus R0.
Okay.
Now how did he figure that out?
Well, the odds are 50% of going up here and 50% of going down
here but don't forget you're getting the money later and this
is a one period interest rate, 1 plus R0.
So therefore what you'd be willing to pay here is 50% of the
dollar that you'll get discounted by 1 plus R0.
What you'd paid here for that is 50% of the dollar you'd be
paid discounted by 1 plus R0.
Okay.
So exactly right.
But now these are like the World Series game by game odds.
They're going to change depending on where you are in the
tree because if you go here in the tree you've got a higher
interest rate so it's going to be 0.5 divided by 1 plus RU or
something which is a bigger number.
Okay.
So the price of betting on a dollar, what you have to pay to
get a dollar of interest rates go up is going to be more here
than it is here say because you're going to still have 50%
chance of getting here but you're discounting by a higher
interest rate.
Okay.
So this is slightly subtler but not much.
It's like the broker in the World Series who game by game,
there's the interest rate derivative market and they're
willing to trade you, they're willing to let you
bet on which way the interest rates are going to go.
Okay.
So what have we got now?
We've got this mortgage that's sitting there.
Okay.
So let's say that you know that the mortgage is owned by
a very rational guy.
You know the mortgage is owned by a very, you know,
the homeowner, he's not the owner of the
mortgage, the homeowner is a very rational
people.
The market is very foolish.
This is an exaggeration.
The market might think, oh the homeowner,
you know he's got this, the homeowner never does
anything, the market thinks.
So they think the bond is worth 120 but you're much,
you've studied prepayments much more than the market does.
You realize that the homeowners aren't going to just sit there
dumbly paying whatever they owe if the interest rates go down.
They're going to prepay.
So in fact the mortgage is only worth 98.
Okay.
So the market thinks it's worth 100.
The market thinks it's worth 100.
The market understands the interest rate probabilities and
is willing to give interest rate risk.
They agree with you about that.
You don't know anything more about interest rates than the
market does.
What you do know is you know something about the prepayments
that the market doesn't know and so you know the bond is
really worth 98 instead of 120.
Okay.
So what should you do?
Now let's suppose that the market is actually treating,
so what the market thinks, market thinks,
mortgage is equal to a 30-year bond,
a 30-year, you know, 30-year,
well okay it's not actually a bond because it doesn't have a
principle at the end.
So the market, so I'm going to have to do a
different sheet here to get it together,
the market thinks mortgage never prepays.
Now let's suppose that what you can trade in the market is you
can trade these interest rate derivatives.
So what should you do?
So what should you do now?
You can trade the mortgage, you can buy it,
you can sell it short, you can buy or sell these
interest rate derivatives.
What would you do?
Let's say you can only buy or sell one unit of the mortgage,
there's only one mortgage that is trading and you want to,
since you know there's a mistake being made,
you're going to use all of it.
So what would you do?
Do you think the mortgage is overvalued or undervalued?
It's overvalued, so therefore what should
you do?
Sell all you're allowed to sell, I've assumed a little
artificially.
All you can do is sell one unit of the mortgage short,
so you're going to sell it for $120.
But what does it mean to sell it short?
It means you have to make the payments that the mortgage is
making.
So you know those payments are only worth $98.
So what does that mean?
It means that you know you're going to get a profit of $22.
However, you could get completely crushed if things don't
turn out exactly the way you thought, so you want to lock in a
constant profit for sure.
So you don't want to get a huge profit more than 20 and no
profit in some other cases or even a negative profit and a huge
profit, you want your $22 for sure.
So how would you do that?
What would you do?
Yes?
Okay, so let's be more precise.
It's exactly right, but let's just see what that
really means.
Okay, so I'm going to copy these numbers down,
which I can't see yet.
Okay, so you have a mortgage that's $98.
It's worth 98 something, 0.8, and it could go in the
upstate to 92.6 or in the downstate it could go to 99.11.
Okay, now on the other hand the market thinks that this
mortgage, in the other hand,
this other instrument, you're selling at the same time
something that's worth 120, you're selling it for 120.
Okay, it doesn't even matter.
It doesn't matter what the mistake is the market makes.
That's the reason why the market made its mistake.
You don't care why they made their mistake.
They're just willing to give you 120 for it.
So you're making a $22 profit, so what should you do?
If you were marking yourself to market, what would you do?
What would you mark yourself to market here?
Well, you've gotten $122, so you've marked yourself to
market here.
You'd say you're $21.16 up.
Here you'd have to say, well, you're not up so much
money anymore because you've just lost some of the value of
your mortgage.
You've lost six bucks.
So you'd have to say you're only up $15 now.
And here you'd have to say, well, you made a little bit of
money, so you're up $22 now.
But you want to lock in this profit, 21.16 for sure.
So what should you do?
If you're marking yourself to market, you want to turn this
money into 21.16, but more than 21.16.
You want to turn this into 21.16 times 1 plus r0.
And you want to turn this into 21.16 times 1 plus r0.
Okay, because then, having locked in 21.16 times
1 plus r0, that's no risk, and it's got the same
present value as this.
And so every period, you want to keep locking your
money into 21.16.
That's the gap between that and up there.
Maybe 1.6 wasn't the right number, by the way.
What was this price up here that they were willing to pay?
They were willing to pay 120.58.
So that's a little bit more.
That's 21.7 or something.
So it's 21.7.
That was the gap.
So it's 120.58.
And so the gap here is 21.7.
Okay, so you want to turn this into 21.7 and this into 21.7.
Okay, so 21.7 here, you want to ensure that
that's where you're marking yourself to position.
You want to know by the end of the next year,
you could turn this into 21.7, discount it up,
and then keep it discounting till all the very end.
So whether you take your money now or you take your money
later, it's always a sure thing with
exactly the same present value.
So how would you turn 21.7 knowing that you're going to
run this risk if you're marking yourself to market?
How would you do that?
Well, you know the value of this plus this at this
interest rate in the mortgage derivative market,
it's worth 98.84.
Okay, so you can always transform this into exactly
91.84 by doing a fair bet.
You can get this to go up to 91.84 and this to go down to 91.
Oh, there's also a payment here, don't forget the payment.
So sorry, we've forgotten the payment.
So this is the mortgage is much subtler because you've
actually gotten $8 here, plus 8, and this is plus 8.
Okay, so we forgot about this.
The present, so you've got an $8 coupon plus
what was left was 92.6 and this is 99.1 plus 8.
So the total value here is 100.6 and the total value here is
107.11.
Okay, and you discount this by this, you know,
6% interest and you get 98.84.
Okay, so I left out a crucial step.
So remember, the cash flows here are the coupon plus the
value of the mortgage that's left.
So the value of the mortgage that's left is 92.65,
okay, plus the $8 coupon.
So over here you're going to have a value of 100.6.
Down here you're going to have a value of 107.11.
Okay, so how can you want that to equal, locked in forever,
you want that to equal.
So you know that you've just sold this mortgage for 100,
what do you call it, 120.
So you've got $21.7 sitting here.
Okay, so now what can you do with this $21.7?
You can cancel your cash flows, so what you owe on the mortgage
is always exactly the same thing, 98.84.
So you want to make this 98.84.
So you have to subtract off something from here,
100.6, you have to subtract.
So you want this to be equal to, so let's do it this way,
okay, let's make this 98.
This is a simpler way of saying it, I think 98.84.
Okay, so let's turn this thing and this thing,
the present value of this and this is 98.84.
Therefore you know there must be some fair trade in the
derivatives market that turns this thing and this thing into
98.04 times 1 plus R0, and this into the same thing,
98.84 times 1 plus R0.
How do you know you can do that?
Because the present value of 98.84 times 1 plus R0 and 98.84
times 1 plus R0, a half of that,
divided by 1 plus R0 is 98.84.
So therefore the present value of this thing has to be the same as
the present value of that thing.
And therefore there must be some trade in the derivatives market
you can make where you sell some of these interest rate
derivatives and you buy some of these interest rate derivatives
that guarantees you 98.84 in both cases.
So that means the present value of what you have to
deliver in cash is 98.84.
Still $21.7 in present value terms less than what you've
received.
So what have you done with this $120?
You've invested that at the same interest rate and so now
you've got a profit.
You owe 98.84 jacked up by the interest rate,
but the 120 you've invested, you've got that 120
plus the interest rate.
So you've always got more that you're carrying on than the
present value of what you owe and you keep going to the end of
the tree when it ends, you're going to still owe 98.84
increased by the interest rate a bunch of times,
but then the value of the money you have is going to be 120
increased by the same interest rate.
And so you're going to end up with money for sure,
so then you can just reverse it all and get the money
$21.7 locked in for sure at the beginning and owe
nothing later in the tree.
So to say it all one more time you have to think of yourself as
marking to market, and if you're marking to market
correctly you know what you owe is only worth 98 dollars and
what you've sold it for is 120 dollars.
That's a profit of 21.7, but you want to make sure you
can maintain the same profit forever or to put it another
way, if you've bought this bond and got those,
you want to make sure you can lock in your profit forever.
Okay, so how would you do this?
Well, there are different ways of doing it.
I was saying suppose you, so let's say you want this
$21.7 for sure at the beginning and you don't want to
ever have to make any payments in the end.
You want everything to cancel out.
What would you do?
How would you do this?
Well, this number tells you you owe in present value
terms 98.84 dollars.
Okay, so you've gotten 120 dollars.
So with this you could take the 120 dollars,
put 21.7 in your pocket, and now with this 98 dollars
you can buy these cash flows.
What can you buy?
You can invest money so that you can buy the right
interest rate derivatives so you're able to make all the
payments of the future bonds.
So this bond, the actual payments the bond is going to
make, you can buy all those payments for 98.84 dollars.
Okay, I guess that's the simplest way of saying it.
I'm going a little bit in circles.
What is the mortgage security down here if you know how
the mortgage is going to pay?
All this is is a bunch of payments at different parts in
the tree, right?
It pays $8 here, it pays $8 here.
Somewhere low in the tree it's going to just prepay for
sure and pay the whole remaining balance down here.
It's not paying any, it's just paid off for sure.
Okay, so it's prepaid.
So what is the, sorry, it's prepaid at the top.
It's just going to, at the bottom it's prepaid.
So the fact that all these payments together are worth
98.84 means that by taking 98.84 dollars in trading on the
derivatives market you can buy all those payments for exactly
98.84.
So therefore as you go farther into the tree you always will
have the payments to make.
You sold the bond short, what does that mean?
Any time this bond makes a payment, a dividend payment,
you have to make the payment.
But you can always buy those payments for 98.84.
How do you know you can buy those payments for 98.84?
Well, because by backward induction.
Here the payments are $8 here plus $92 of remaining payments.
So there's a way in the interest rate derivatives market of
buying 8 plus 92.6, that's $100.6 here,
and buying 107.11 dollars here.
So by spending this 98.84 you can get,
by this many interest rate derivatives,
$100 of payments here and $107 of payments here.
Half of 100 plus half of 107 discounted at 6% interest gives
you 98.84.
So it's possible on the market to buy $100 up here and $107
down here with this 98.84.
Now out of those $100 up here you've bought,
give 8 of them to the guy you sold the bond short to.
That's the coupon payment.
Down here give 8 of these dollars to the same guy you sold the
coupon short to.
Now that leaves you with $92 up there and $99 there.
But this $92 is the present value of what's going to happen
next.
And what's going to happen next up here is that you're going
to owe $8 to the guy here and you're going to owe $8 to the
guy here, but what's left will be worth $83
or $97.
So therefore with this $92 you in fact are able to buy
this $92 plus $105 here because the present value of $92,
that's almost $92 plus $105 here is exactly $92.
That's how we got that number.
It's a half times this number plus the coupon plus a half
times this number plus the coupon discounted at the
interest rate corresponding to here that is $92.
So therefore by investing here in the interest rate
you can buy that cash flow here, the $84 plus $8,
$92.
Pay the guy the $8.
You'll still have $83 left.
And with the cash you have over here, remember you bought
exactly this much cash.
You've got this much cash left.
You can buy all the payments you need to make here,
the $8 coupon plus you'll still have $97 left.
So all the way forward through the tree you could always
afford to buy all the cash payments of this bond.
You can pay off the guy you sold it short to all the coupon
payments that this bond is making by having invested $98.84
at the beginning.
And similarly you got $120 by selling the bond short.
So you've made $21.7 and there's never any more cash
coming out of your pocket.
You pocketed the $21.7 and you invested the $98.4 in the
derivatives market over and over changing your investment
and therefore reproducing all the cash flows that you
have to make to the guy for having sold it short.
So do I need to say this?
I didn't say it very well.
Do you?
How followable was that?
Not very followable.
Sorry, I didn't do a good job.
So let's try again.
What is the essence of what's going on?
The essence of what's going on is that game by game or month
by month you can find someone else who will always trade
at fair odds with you.
Fair odds means in the interest rate market.
They don't know these people trading the interest rate market.
They don't understand prepayments.
It's not like the bookie here.
They don't understand prepayments.
They're not willing to bet with you on what prepayments are
going to be.
They're just going to bet with you on what interest rate is
going to turn up.
But you see the cash flows from the bond depended on
prepayments and depended on the interest rate.
So you calculated it was worth $98.84 because you know what
prepayments to put in the future.
So if you're absolutely confident on your prepayments,
you're going to know what this bond is going to do in the
future.
So remember what the prepayment, and so what are those
prepayments?
It's this stuff.
So down here where the ones are, the guy's prepaid for
sure.
So you'd have to deliver to the market the entire remaining
balance at that point.
But see when you calculated this bond you were anticipating
what all the payments were going to be,
whether they're going to be the whole remaining balance or
just the coupon, taking the present value,
what calculations were you doing?
In the present value you're doing calculations that this
guy can do.
You're just taking a half times this plus a half times that
discounted.
The interest rate derivative guy is willing to do that.
He doesn't know what the prepayments are going to be,
but you're never betting on prepayments with him,
with the interest rate derivatives guy.
You're just saying, let me pay you some money
now, you give me money if things go up here,
or I'll pay you some money now, and you give me money if things
go down here, if interest rates go up here,
or interest rates go down here.
So because the present value of the mortgage cash flows
evaluated according to the interest rate probabilities and
discounting is 98.84, that means that you can
successively trade on the interest rate market and
reproduce all the mortgage payments.
Assuming you're right about what they're going to be.
And therefore, with 98.84 dollars,
you can replicate what the mortgage is going to pay.
And therefore, you make 21.7 for free,
because you sold it for 120.
You only need 98.84 of that to reproduce all the payments
of the mortgage bond.
And how do you know that you can do that?
Because it's just one step repeated over and over again.
At every step there's going to be a payment of,
say, $8 and a present value of what's left.
And there'll be a payment down here of $8 and a present value
of what's left.
Or maybe this thing is just a prepayment,
in which case it's a single payment of 99.5,
that's the remaining balance after one period.
But when you figure out this number, it's always taken by
averaging this number discounted with this number discounted.
So therefore, averaging at the odds the
interest rate guy will give you.
So therefore, using this money, we're now doing the opposite
of the World Series, using this money,
you can buy this total payment and you can buy this total
payment, because that's exactly what the
interest rate guy will give you.
This is equal to a half of all that,
divided by 1 plus r0, plus a half of all this,
divided by 1 plus r0, that is this number.
So therefore, in the interest rate market,
by using this cash, you can buy that and you
can buy that.
And that's enough to make the payment,
a, 8, that the mortgage is paying,
so you keep your promise.
And over here, if the mortgage prepaid,
the remaining balance, that's that number,
99.5, you can pay that too.
And then the mortgage is done.
Here the mortgage is going to go on.
But see what's going on at present value you've calculated
at 92.6.
You bought 92.6 plus 8.
You used the 8 to pay off the coupon.
You still have 92.6 dollars in your pocket here.
You're going to use that to buy the future payments of the
mortgage, some of which will be a coupon,
and maybe this will be another coupon,
plus the present value of what's left.
It goes down here again, the guy might prepay,
but you're going to have enough money left to make that
prepayment.
So with this 98.84 dollars, you're just doing fair odds
over and over again.
You're buying the future cash flows of the mortgage.
And therefore, with 98.84 dollars,
you can keep all your promises,
and yet you've gotten 120 at the beginning,
so you've locked it in.
So that's it.
Any questions?
I don't know if that was too clear.
So somebody ask a question.
You are great at asking questions.
Is this followable or?
Well, that's too good.
Too great.
Okay, so let's see if I can do another example.
Okay, let's suppose that we've got this bond.
Let's say you can't trade in the interest rate derivatives
market directly, but you can trade in the bond
market.
So let's get more realistic now.
Let's suppose that there's a bond market.
Now here we had interest rates of 30-year bond,
8 percent.
The starting interest rate was 6 and the volatility was 20.
So we had that sheet that was bond market trading.
So let's just go to that.
The file was open.
Okay, so callable bond.
Okay, so here we are in the bond market.
So let's say there's a 9 percent coupon bond.
It doesn't matter what it is.
We start at the interest rate at 0.06.
Was that where we were starting?
And the volatility was 20.
Okay, so here we have the same exact,
got exactly the same interest rate process as before.
So those are the interest rates just as we had before.
Okay, and now let's talk about a bond.
So it's a non-collable bond.
I forgot already now what I said.
How long was this bond?
It was a 30-year bond.
It didn't have to be 30 years, but it was a 30-year 9 percent bond.
And its value was 140.93.
So the bond is worth 140.93.
Interest rates go up.
Same interest rate process.
It can go to 121.4 or to 159.4.
Okay, so now let's suppose you can't trade in the interest rate
market anymore.
What should you do now?
Well, you've got the interest rate.
You've got the one-month bond that you can trade at an
interest rate of 6 percent, and you've got this bond market.
So anyone will buy and sell with you.
This is the 30-year 9 percent coupon bond.
They're all willing to buy and sell this with you.
And you've got this mortgage that everybody else thinks is
the price is worth 120, but you're sure it's worth
98.84, because you know the
prepayments, the homeowners are smart,
and they're going to prepay.
And no one else realizes they're going to do it.
So what should you do now?
You can't trade interest rate derivatives anymore.
All you can do is trade in the bond market.
So do you have any idea what you could do?
What would you do?
So this is even slightly more realistic example.
You've got a mortgage that you know is overvalued.
You've got a bond that you can trade.
And of course you can trade a very short bond,
the one-year bond, which is trading at 6 percent
interest.
You can trade a one-year treasury, and here's the 30-year 9
percent treasury, which happens to be worth 140.
So what should you do?
Well, you know that you could sell this mortgage short,
get $120 for it, and you think the value of
the payments is only 98.
So you'd love to do this.
The trouble is the future values depend on a lot of
money.
So it may be that you'd have to, you know,
the payments you might have to make are more than 98.
They could go, you know, so what are you going to do?
How would you lock in your profit for sure?
Can anybody figure out what to do?
Just intuitively it seems like pretty complicated to figure
out what to do.
So you sell this bond for 120.
You put the $21.7 in your pocket.
You have $98.4 now that you have to spend to somehow
acquire payments that are going to just allow you to make the
bond payments you sold short, the mortgage payments you sold
short, at every node.
So you never have to give up any more money.
So what should you do?
You want to acquire some assets with this $98.84 that'll put you
in a position where you have $100.6 up here and $100.71 down
there.
So how can you do that?
Well, you have a combination of the short.
You have this 30-year bond you could invest in.
If you spent $98 on the 30-year bond,
that's 70% of that.
So that would give you $84 up here and $105 down there.
So it wouldn't match what you really need.
On the other hand, you could also put your $98 in
the one-year bond, which would give you $98.84
times 1.06 and $98.04 times 1.06.
So you've got this choice, or you can put $100 here
and get $106 there.
That's what the interest rate we said was 6%.
So that means there's a one-year bond that pays $106 in these
two cases.
There's the 30-year bond where $140 could be worth this in the
two cases.
So let's say you can't go trade on the derivatives market.
It doesn't exist.
But, or at least you don't know how to trade on it.
So what you've got to trade is on the bond market and the long bond
market and the short bond market.
So let's call this the long bond market and the short bond
market.
So what would you do?
Any thoughts here?
So let me repeat the problem.
You find, like you typically do when you're a trader,
you know something other guys don't do.
That's what you're making your whole livelihood on.
You understand that prepayments are going to be very fast.
They're going to, you know, the people know how to
prepay.
The rest of the market hasn't occurred to them yet that
you can prepay.
They're grossly overpaying for the mortgage,
paying $120.
So you go and sell the mortgage short.
Now that means you have to deliver whatever anyone else with
the mortgage is paying.
You have to deliver it to other people.
So that's a lot to take on.
But I say that you can sell this bond for $120,
put $21.7 in your pocket, take the remaining $98.84
and now buy the cash flows that you're going to have to
deliver in the future.
How do you know you can buy all the cash flows?
There are 30 years of cash flows.
There are coupon payments, there are prepayments.
There are all kinds of complicated payments of the
cash flows.
How with this $98.84 you can be able to buy them all
exactly.
All you can do is trade by the long bond and by the short
bond, or maybe sell the long bond short,
or sell the short bond short.
So how by trading these two securities over and over again
can you replicate the cash flows of the mortgage?
That way you will have hedged out your risk and you'll have the
$21.7 locked in with ever having to worry about
anything in the future, provided your prepayment
calculations are correct.
If you're wrong about prepayments then you're going to be
in big trouble.
So you're betting on knowing what the prepayments are.
So what should you do?
Well here this thing is going to, you know,
the cash flows at this point are going to be worth 100.6,
8 that you have to deliver, 92.6 for the present value of
the future cash flows.
Here they're worth, let's just do the real thing,
never mind that stuff, here they're worth 107.11.
Now you know that a half times 1 over 1 plus R is 0 of 106
plus a half over 1 plus 0.06 times 107 is 98.84.
So the average of these discounted is that number.
Okay?
So and you know that the average of these numbers,
so this is the non-collable bond, so it's not these numbers,
it's this number plus 9 and this number plus 9 is paid a
coupon, so the average of these numbers
accounted by 6% is that.
Okay?
So what does that tell you you should do?
Well, I claim by combining this bond and this bond you can
produce 100.6 and 107.11 here.
So we know that this top bond is going to pay you 130.4 up there
and 168.4 down here.
Okay?
So if you bought X units of the long bond, that's what your
payoffs would be, the short bond is going to pay
you 106 in both cases.
So if you bought X units of the short bond,
that's what your payoff would be.
So you want the payoff to be 100.6 and 107.11.
Okay?
So there must be an XL and an XS that equals that.
How do you know there has to be?
Because it's two equations and two unknowns and these are
independent equations.
In fact, you can tell what XL has to be.
The gap between 100.6 and 107, that gap is about 7 and this
gap is about 38.
Okay?
So 7 is like a fifth of 38.
So XL is going to have to be a fifth.
So I know in advance that this is going to turn out to be
about 7 over 38.
Okay?
And XL, so just by general principles you know there's a
solution for XL and XS.
Okay?
Now, okay?
So I know there's a solution to that because it's two linear
equations and two unknowns and they're not degenerate,
so I know there has to be a solution to that.
Okay?
And I also can tell you what XL has to be because the gap,
that's the difference between the top number and the bottom
number, is 7.
That gap over there is 38.
So obviously the middle gap, 100.6 and 100.6 is 0.
So if I take XL to be 7.38 of that number,
the gap is going to go down from 38 to 7.
And then I'll just have to find the right XS to make that equal.
Okay?
So that combination of XL and XS will produce this payoff here
and this payoff there.
Okay?
So I know what combination of the long bond and the short
bond to hold.
So I produce exactly these things.
So I'm going to get a cash flow of 100.6 and 107.11.
And I'll be able to use that to make the coupon payment of
8 in both cases.
And on top of that have enough money to continue buying future
cash flows.
Okay?
Now what will the cost of this XL and X short be?
It'll be XL.
I'll have to pay $100 for the short bond.
If I do XX, X short and I'll have to take 7.38 of 140.
That's how much it'll cost me to buy the long bond.
So the right combination of short bond and long bond,
short bond and long bond will give me the right payoffs.
And now, and it's clear that there is an XS here and an XL here,
such that I get the payoffs I want of 100 and 107.
But the last thing to notice is the cost of this XL and this
XS, which is going to be 140 times XL plus 100 times XS.
The cost will be exactly 98.84.
Okay?
How do I know that?
And therefore I'll just be able to do it.
Okay?
So I'll ask you that question in a second.
So here's what this hedging amounts to.
The hedging amounts to, again, you know,
because of your superior knowledge of prepayments,
that the mortgage cash flows, not the mortgage itself,
the cash flows that haven't come from the mortgage,
are only worth 98.8.
Someone's handing you $120 in exchange for making those mortgage
cash flows.
Okay?
So what do you do for that?
You take the 98.84 dollars out of the 120,
you take 21.7 that goes into your pocket.
The 98.84 you have to use to buy the future cash flows.
Well, you know the first cash flows are going to be $8,
but you're going to need more money to buy the cash flows
that come after.
How much more money do you need?
92.6 here at 99.1 there.
Okay?
So how can you put yourself in a position to have $100.6 here
and $107.11 here?
Can you use this amount of money to buy these,
this value at the next step?
Well, we saw in the derivatives market, yes you can.
But even if you can't trade in the derivatives market,
you don't need to if you could trade a short bond and a
long bond.
You would just find how much of the long bond do I hold and
how much of the short bond do I hold so I can get these
$100.6 and $107.11.
And the answer is you have to solve that equation up there.
What XL and what XS gives you that number?
Okay?
And you know that there's some XL and some XS that will solve
that because it's two equations and two unknowns,
I'm repeating myself.
You even know what XL is without writing down the
equations because the gap has to be one thing there's no
risk and the other thing there's a big risk.
The only risk in the payoff has to come from the long bond.
So that gap of 38, if you take 738 of that,
you're going to get the gap to go down to 7.
So the XL is going to turn out to be 738.
XS you have to solve by algebra.
So you know how much that XL is and what the XS is.
Okay?
So that's what you hold.
That combination of XL and XS, you hold here and you
get exactly the payoffs.
And then the final step is to notice that you can exactly
afford it with 98.84 dollars.
How do you know that you can afford it?
Because what you want is 100.6 and 107.11,
and that costs 98.84.
Okay?
What you're buying, you're buying two things together
whose payoffs together are worth 98.84.
So therefore, the cost of the two things
separately have to be worth 98.84.
Okay?
So it will turn out when you solve for XL and XS,
you'll exactly be able to afford it with this amount of cash.
Okay?
And so you can just do that going forward all the time,
constantly re-hedging your portfolio.
So that's the essence of dynamic hedging.
It's a very beautiful idea, which I probably haven't
explained in the optimal way, but the point is that,
to summarize the whole thing again,
the point is that you take, you know something about a bond,
but you're subject to more risk besides what you know.
You hedge out the extra risk still relying on yourself to be
right about what you know.
You relied on your being right about the prepayments.
You don't know anything about the future interest rates.
But there's another guy like the trader in the World Series,
the broker in the World Series, who's willing to make bets on
the interest rate with you.
Okay?
Or to say the same thing, who's been calculating the values
of the bonds as if, you know, the short and the long
bond, as if he was making bets on the interest rate.
Because he's calculated at the same 50-50 odds discounting
by the interest rate.
So because there are all these guys on the market who are
willing to make these game by game bets,
either directly, I'm almost done,
they're either to make the game by game bets on the
interest rate directly in the derivatives market,
or what's equivalent to that, they've used that calculus to
figure out the value of these long and short bonds.
So by trading through the long and short bonds you're
effectively doing the same interest rate bet.
So either way, by trading through the two bonds
or trading directly in the interest rate derivative
market, you're able to buy,
by going game at a time, year by year,
you're able to buy all the cash flows of your mortgage,
the cash flows that you're predicting it's going to have.
And therefore you can make the profit for sure.
So it's predicting something, being confident in your
prediction, then being able to buy what you've predicted the
cash flows are for a smaller price than you can sell the
security for.
That's how you locked in your profit.
