In today's YouTube video, I'll be going over how I built an entire hedge fund system using
Claude. This is a full longshore equity fund that scores every single stock in the S&P 500
across eight quantitative factors and 27 sub-factors underneath. This hedge fund will
pull SEC filings and insider transactions automatically, run AI analysis, let you approve
or reject trades, and even connects to a real broker. Now I call this analyst
insider hedge fund Jarvis. You can ask him anything about your portfolio, stocks in the
universe, and he even gives answers based on live data. So in this video, I'll walk you
through how traditional longshore hedge funds actually work. And then I'll show you how to
build every single step in that layer from scratch using Claude. Now I've studied math
and economics at UCLA and spent three years in investment banking at Raymond James. So I've
seen exactly how institutional firms actually approach the markets. Now obviously you're not
going to become a one-person Citadel, but you can use the same systems and frameworks that these
firms use and adjust them for your own trading styles, portfolio size, and risk. It's important
to remember that no one strategy works forever. So you'll constantly need to adapt and change
to the market as structure shifts. And that's actually a big part of what the system is designed
to do. Now as always, this video is not financial advice and I'm not guaranteeing any profits
in this video. This video is strictly educational for you to potentially use and adopt to your own
trading styles and strategies. So before I show you the system, let me first go over what we're
actually building here. Most people hear hedge fund and they just think it's a rich guy picking
stocks. But the first thing to know is that there's actually a bunch of different types
of hedge funds. You have trend following funds, stat ARB, global macro, event driven,
and even activist funds. But the most common one by far is longshore equity funds,
which is what we're building here. Basically, a longshore fund does two fundamental things.
It long stocks that it thinks will go up and then short stocks that it thinks will go down.
So if your model says Intel looks strong, you would buy Intel and then you would shore
another stock that looks weak. And the reason why it's called a hedge fund is because the
short side is supposed to protect you from the market in case it drops. This way,
your actual return comes from picking stocks on both sides, regardless of whether the
market actually does well or not. But now picking the stocks is just one piece of the puzzle.
Behind the scenes, a fund like this has a ton of different infrastructure that's actually running
the entire project. So the very first thing you need is a research layer. Before you ever buy
or sell anything, you need to score all the stocks in your universe on a bunch of different
factors. These are things like momentum value, quality, and instead of buying activity.
So you're not just looking at price charts, you're also pulling 10Ks, earnings reports,
you're reading SEC filings, you're figuring out what other funds are doing,
basically tracking all the activity related to this position. And this is exactly what we're
going to have Claude all do for us. So after that most important research layer is done,
you have construction. This is what helps actually build out the portfolio. So how much of one
stock do we buy, making sure we're not overweight in a specific sector. Then once we construct
the portfolio, we have risk. This risk management layer is just where we have pre checks and circuit
breakers to make sure nothing goes terribly wrong. And then on top of all this, we have execution
and reporting. This is where you can connect to a real broker and place trades with limit
orders to control slippage. And most importantly, tracking your PNL to figure out why you either
made or lost money. Diving right in, we have our Jarvis analysts right here working at our
hedge fund, right when we open the dashboard here, we can see that there's over 500. So 503
stocks scored inside our universe. We have 107 long candidates and 96 short candidates with 18
positions currently open. There's around 50,000 insider events. We can see CEO CFO buys as well
as cluster buys. And remember again, this is all updating with live data. So it's automatically
pulling in reports daily along with price action. So this is just basically a ton of data
that you would never be able to materially go through manually as a single person. He'll be able
to answer basically any question based on live data from our system. And just like I said,
in the beginning of the video, this whole system is built with Claude. So I'll show you how to
build it with Claude. And then whenever we ask questions, it's also using the Claude model.
So it's kind of like a two way intelligence street where we have all the data already
analyzed amassed. And then we have what's basically the top shelf AI model Claude here,
Opus 4.6 or Opus 4.7, depending on what you prefer to actually answer questions with this data.
So if we just ask a simple question, like give a summary for today, and then go ahead and click
ask Jarvis, what we have here is basically our entire universe scored. So we have our portfolio,
specific metrics around our portfolio, sector performance and how our long candidates are
performing. So it's basically not hallucinating data since we're literally feeding all this
data to the Claude model, just so it has a source to understand our criteria and context.
We can also ask portfolio specific questions, like why is AEP my top long currently? And then it'll
give some reasoning saying that it has a perfect composite score, strong overall performance
across momentum, recent price strength, financials. And then below this, we have more complex
valuation models like the Piotrowski scores of 6.0. We also have an Altman D score of one. So
obviously there's some distress risk, but generally speaking, this is a fairly strong position,
at least what Jarvis thinks. Now if we want to ask more institutional questions, something like
which factor is contributing the most to portfolio variants right now and are we crowded with the
rest of the market on it? And now this here is cool because it's actually combining two
different systems in one answer. It's pulling from the factor risk model that we've built,
and I'll show you how to include this, as well as crowding detection,
which will basically tell you not just where your risk is, but whether everyone else is
making the same bet. Now for an actual hedge fund style question, we can ask something like
did our tech picks be XLK over the last 90 days, or are we just long in the sector?
This is a real question since it will give you exact numbers showing your stock selection alpha
versus just writing the sector. And here we can see that our IT picks generated a return of
19% over the last 90 days, while the sector ETF only returned 10.9%. This shows that we actually
outperformed the sector by close to 10%. And more importantly, our specific picks actually added way
more alpha than just holding the ETF. Now there's obviously countless questions you can ask, like
given today's VIX level of 16.9, are we positioned correctly? This is more so meant to just help
give some more context and answer specific questions you have. But where all the
sauce is basically coming from is inside this research tab here. So this research tab is probably
where you're going to be spending most of your time. It's going to basically show you the top 30
and bottom 30 stock picks by composite score. And you'll even be able to see all eight factors
broken out. So momentum, value, quality, growth, revision, short interest, etc. institutional.
So green means strong on the factor, red means weak. And this way you can just visually scan
what is weak and strong. But if we scroll down here, we can actually see the top 10 long and
short candidates. So 10 on each side are already adjusted for sector neutrality, beta and liquidity.
And now before I go into the top 10 long and short candidates, what I want to cover is this
portfolio optimizer here. This is a toggle where you can switch between two different methods.
The first here is MVO, which stands for mean variance optimization. So basically Markowitz,
this will just mathematically find the optimal portfolio that maximizes your expected return
for a given level of risk while factoring in estimated transaction costs. This is what actual
quant funds here use. But on the other side, you also have a simpler conviction till approach
here with conviction. This is where you just overweight the highest scoring names.
Now you can go ahead and compare these two portfolio optimizers to see what you want to
stick with. But generally speaking, MVO would probably be your best bet. Now scrolling down
again to the top 10 long and short candidates, this is the part where I think is the most
important. So for each candidate, we can see AEP as a top long candidate, we have three buttons
approve, reject or reset. So the system or fund in this case gives you recommendations,
but you make the final decision. Now this is actually how real hedge funds work. So you have
analysts who go ahead and do the research and generate trade ideas, which is what we're doing
here. Then there's a PM or portfolio manager who reviews every single trade idea and decides
whether it actually goes into the book or not. So the analysts might say things like,
I like the stock because, you know, XYZ, but the PM could still flat out reject it if they don't
like the name. So this is exactly what we're doing here. Jarvis and the quant model are basically
your analyst team generating recommendations and you act as the PM. But again, I'm modeling this
to be as close as possible to a real institutional fund. And now diving deeper to the tickers,
we can see the positions, shares, and then we have some additional factors here. I touched on
this earlier, but we have Piotrowski scores as well as Altman Z scores. So this is just basically a
nine point financial health checklist, things like positive cashflow, declining debt, rising margins,
and the Altman Z score here is basically just a bankruptcy prediction model. And then out below
all these tickers, you can actually run an additional cloud analysis. This is where the
system is going to basically send over the company's financial statements. So 10 Ks, 10 Qs,
along with the latest insider transaction history, earnings reports, live data to cloud to come out
with a full breakdown for you. So you basically understand this trade idea. So inside this financial
analysis here, we have scoring earnings qualities, balance sheet health, flagging any red flags or
green flags. Then below this, we have risk factors. And then finally, we have insider
activity. It's looking at all the form for transactions over the last 90 days and interpreting
them. And then you'll know of someone like, you know, the CFO bought 50,000 shares on the open
market. This is just basically having a research analyst that reads every single filing for you
and summarizes what actually matters at scale. So once you have all your positions here approved
either short or long, see, we would potentially short Coinbase, you would then move on to
risk management here on the next tab. And just like everything else, it's going to update
live based on your current portfolio. So up top here, we have circuit breakers. These are
horizontal bars showing how close you are to the trigger levels. So we have things like
daily loss limits, weekly loss limits, and drawdown from peak. Right now, everything's green
and yellow-ish because we're well within the limits. But if we hit something like 2.5%
daily loss, it's going to shut down the system. And then if we hit 8% drawdown from peak,
it's going to stop the system completely as well. Now below this, this is basically what
will make our system a lot more institutional with first the factor risk contributions and then
marginal risk contributions as well. So this donut chart here is basically breaking down
your total portfolio risk into two pieces. Factor risk, which is green here, is basically
the systemic part that comes from exposure to things like momentum and value. And then
specific risk here in the blue is basically stock specific stuff that basically has nothing
to do with any factor. So right now it's showing 20.5% factor, around 80% specific. And this is what
you technically and typically want to see. What this means is just that our risk is mostly coming
from individual stock picks, not from one big factor bet. And it fills the other way around.
So if these two were flipped, you'd basically just be making a leveraged bet on one specific
factor. Now down here, we have marginal risk contributions. So this tells you which
individual stocks are adding the most risk to your portfolio. Then we have factor exposure spread,
stress tests during periods of high drawdowns, and then finally correlations as well. This shows you
how correlated all your positions are with each other. So if you're in a bunch of semis positions,
it's basically super correlated, right? If everything in your book is moving together,
you're not actually diversified in that completely goes against how a hedge fund would
operate. Generally speaking, you want to avoid just making one big bet. So this system flags any pair
with correlation above 0.85. Now that we've covered risk, what's more important to some people,
obviously is performance. So on this performance tab, we're able to see things like our equity curve,
how much we're outperforming spy in our portfolio. Next, we have a monthly returns grid,
which is the standard institutional tear sheet format drawdown chart. And then down here is PNL
attribution. So now this is something that retail traders typically would never see as breaking down
your daily return into four components. First, we can see how much came from market exposure beta
here. Then we can see how much came from sector allocation, how much came from your factor
tilt and then finally alpha. This way you can see if you're actually generating alpha from
stockpicking or if you're just writing the sector up. And just to double click on that,
once we go past the best and worst contributors, we can actually see sector relative performance.
And this is how we're able to see if the stocks we picked were better than the sector average.
This would basically confirm if we're actually picking winners or just writing the market.
And then we have some final data points like turnover analytics showing how much we're trading
and a few other things, including a Claude weekly commentary. So at the end of the week,
you can basically hit a button and have Claude basically summarize a weekly performance.
And then now finally here we have the execution page, which you can think of as basically your
own trading desk view. So the idea is that inside the research tab, whenever you hit execute or
purchase, you'll see the recent trade basically hit here and then also get sent over to your
broker. You're able to see a log of everything, including the ticker, how many shares, limit
price, fill price, slippage and basis points. And then for the short side, it actually checks
whether each stock is actually available to short before it tries to place the order.
And then we have our last page here, which is the letter. And you can think of this as more so
for fun. This is a daily investor letter written by Jarvis in the style of an actual LP letter.
It talks about the day's performance, which positions contributed, what the risk picture
looks like as if you're communicating to real life LPs. But honestly, it's just very helpful
for your own trading journal to force you to think about what you did, why you either made
or lost money in the market that day. Now, let me walk through how this whole system
is built. Because even though it might seem complex, it's really just seven layers stacked
on top of each other. So each of these layers will be built by seven different prompts,
which I'll show you. And each layer or prompt will basically depend on the one before it.
So if you want to follow along on the prompts, you can pause at any time in the video,
simply take a screenshot. And if you send it to Claude, it'll give you the text version of
my prompts. And this way you don't have to type anything. Obviously, my goal is try to
make this as accessible as possible. But if you do want to go deeper, I have a community
in the description, which is the largest AI trading community right now. Currently,
all of our active members are using and testing Claude to build out automated trading bots,
quant systems, and just analyst frameworks. So inside I have detailed step-by-step guides
on everything ranging from analyzing, reviewing trades, backtesting results,
and even coming up with new strategies. And it's all structured so that even
if you have zero technical knowledge or coding skills, you'll still be able to fall
long and build real automated trading systems with Claude that just weren't possible for retail
traders before. I truly believe AI and by extension, Claude is going to be the thing
that finally closes the gap between retail traders and investors and institutions.
And if you're not using Claude, at least somewhere in your trading process or frameworks,
you're going to fall behind people that actually do integrate and implement it.
Now for the prompts themselves, there's basically three ways to go about building
out this entire project. First, you can go ahead to, you know, Claude.ai,
which is their web app, and basically type in each prompt one by one. Then with each prompt,
you would get the created file and basically string them together at the end yourself.
Now, obviously, this is probably the simplest way to go about it, but potentially the most
complicated since at the end, you do have to essentially orchestrate all the different
moving components. So another option you have here is Claude co-work. This is
basically the same Claude, but now downloaded to your desktop so that whenever it creates
files and folders for you, it automatically gets saved onto your local computer. This is
going to make it a lot easier for Claude to basically go in, make any edits and changes to
specific files, features or components. And this way you'll have your structure already organized
for you all in a single project. But in my opinion, the absolute best way to go about
building out this entire project is using Claude code, which is Claude coding agent.
So this way this Claude code agent will have to live inside an IDE like VS code here,
but it's going to be able to read all your files, make any necessary changes or adjustments,
update files, make sure everything's structured properly. This way it'll make it as simple
as possible for Claude to go in and create this robust hedge fund system for you. So to
actually use Claude code, it's a tiny bit more complex than Claude or Claude co-work.
So what you need to do is first download an IDE like VS code here,
but once you have this down, you can go ahead to extensions here on the left hand side and then
download Claude code. So once you go ahead and download and enable it, you should see Claude code
just on the right hand menu here. And then with this pop up window, you're going to be able to
essentially input the prompts and Claude code here is going to help you create the whole
entire folder for you. So all the necessary files you need and logic associated with those
files. So now heading back over to our diagram, let's now go over all the layers in prompts.
So at the very bottom, we have our base layer, which is data infrastructure.
Now this is where we're going to be connecting to five different data sources to get all their
information and basically shell out our project structure. So inside this prompt here, we have
first the project structure where you can see how our project is going to be built.
First is Yahoo Finance, which gives us daily prices for every stock in the S&P 500. It's also
going to pull the financial statements and any other important documents. But if you want
more detailed data across more time frames, I would recommend a paid source like Polygon
or Alpha Vantage. It also connects to the SEC Edgar, which is the public database.
And this is where it gets really data heavy. So the system pulls 10 Ks, 10 Qs and 8 Ks for
text analysis. But the big one is form four, which are all the insider transaction filings.
Then it pulls 13 F filings where we can basically track what every other fund is doing
like Citadel point 72 and Bridgewater. After this, we're going to get short interest data.
We have analyst estimates. First run takes about an hour or two just because it's downloading
everything from scratch. But after that, it's basically a 10 minute daily update that just
grabs what's new since yesterday. Now on top of all the data sits the scoring engine here,
which is our second layer. This will basically take everything and distill it into eight factor
scores built from 27 underlying sub factors for every single stock. So first we have momentum,
which is measuring if the stock has actually been going up. Now this isn't just simple price
change. It avoids short term reversals, looks at acceleration adds relative strength versus sector
ETFs, and it uses 52 week high proximities as signals. Next, we have value, which is how cheap
the stock is relative to its fundamentals. So this is where we use all of our downloaded documents.
Then we have quality, which looks at earnings and actual real cash flow. Following that we have
growth, estimate revisions, short interest, insider activity, and institutional flow. So all
eight of these factors are basically scored and ranked within its own sector. Then all eight get blended
into a composite score, which is basically how you essentially rate stocks. And the final piece
after all of this is crowding detection to make sure that factors themselves aren't getting crowded.
Now after the scoring engine, what we have is our AI analysis. And this adds a whole
another layer of complexity and takes our system from just being quantitatively focused
to something that has real analysis potential. This is where we can hook up our existing system
to cloud and have it analyze specific tickers based on the information we've already pulled in
from the scoring engine and data infrastructure. So you can think of these two as more quantitatively
focused and then this AI analysis brings more fundamental qualitative natures to our system.
What you first need to do is head over to cloud developers and get your own API key. And if
you do want to use chat GBT for cheaper compute that works too. And then what you would do is
just paste in your API keys to the ENV file that's created inside this prompt. So for this
prompt, it's going to run four main analyzers, the filing analyzer, which sends all the financial data
and has cloud do a forensic review. The risk analyzer reads entire risk factors from the
latest 10 cues. The insider analyzer takes the parsed form for data to have cloud interpret
patterns. And the earnings transcripts also get analyzed. And each analysis gets cash,
so you only have to pay for it once per filing period. Then after the AI analysis layer,
we have portfolio construction. So this is where we take both the quantitative scores
as well as qualitative fundamental analyses into our portfolio. So our portfolio builder uses
the market with framework where you mathematically find the best balance between expected return and
risk. It picks the top and bottom names within each sector. So your sector neutral sizes positions
based on conviction and volatility adjust for beta. It checks that you can actually trade
the size without moving the price and even budgets turnover. Then once we're done with
our portfolio, we need to handle risk. And this is where the risk management layer comes in.
You can think of this as sitting at the very top above the portfolio above analysis above
scoring. So that even if all of these check out quantitatively and qualitatively,
the risk management can still veto or make sure that your system doesn't fall apart,
despite what these other layers are telling you. So there's going to be a comprehensive factor
risk model that decomposes your total portfolio risk into factor versus specific components.
Then for risk checks before every trade, it's going to check a pre trade veto.
It's going to make sure that your circuit breakers aren't hitting on your daily or weekly max drawdowns.
It's going to check your factor monitor correlations, tail risks, stress tests,
as well as risk states. Then after we make sure our portfolio is properly constructed
and has limited risks, we can handle execution. This is where we can basically connect to Alpaca
and place limit orders with slippage tracking. So before you run this prompt, you're going to
need to sign up for an account with Alpaca, which is an API for his broker that lets you
place and execute trades directly from our system. So after you sign up, you'll get an API key and
secret key, which we'll place in the same exact file where your anthropic API key is.
So this execution prompt connects to Alpaca and places limit orders with slippage tracking.
You'll be able to see things like the order executor, short availability and order manager.
Then once we verify that we can actually place orders in that it works,
we can handle reporting and dashboard. Now this is the tail end of the system where
we're able to log our trades, see our performance, update everything we need to,
and basically view all of these other layers inside an all-inclusive dashboard.
So the prompt here is first going to build the reporting engine and then finally the
dashboard that has all the information. So for the reporting engine, it's basically going to
include a daily P&L attribution, when loss analytics, sector relative performance,
additional turnover analytics and a tier sheet. Moving on, we have the streamlit dashboard
that's actually going to show everything. So in our case, the portfolio, research,
risk, performance, execution and letter. So you can think of this as basically tying everything
together into one final package that you yourself can view to understand what's happening at a quick
glance. Now if you found this video helpful, make sure to like, comment and subscribe
as it greatly helps out the channel. Cover everything regarding AI trading and how to
actually use AI in your own trading portfolio and strategies. And like I mentioned in the
beginning of the video, if you are interested in diving a little bit deeper and getting full guides,
as well as an active community, all censored around using AI and Claude,
click the link in the description for my school community.
